After creating well over 500 videos
that's gotten over a million views for
myself and my clients, one of, if not
the biggest bottlenecks that I know that
business owners face that prohibits them
from creating viral content is coming up
with video ideas. However, not just
video ideas themselves. [music]
It's easy to come up with video ideas,
but the hard part is is coming up with
the viral ideas and then understanding
what direction you're supposed to
[music] take that set idea. And it's
that last part which is the key that
business owners miss. It isn't the idea
per [music] se, but more so how you
think through what direction to take
that idea, not to frame it in a way that
gets views. So, in today's video, you're
going to bear witness to a behind
thescenes live process showing you how I
extracted 37 viral ideas in under
[music] 45 minutes for one of the
business owners inside of my highest
level community, Nexus.
>> Assuming that I made this like a a
product or service, how much would you
pay for one of these calls just for an
hour of me going through the audiation?
minimum of five grand because this is
going to generate me probably 100 200 so
minimum five probably more eight to 10.
>> Now the value of this video is not going
to be getting you ideas directly unless
you [music] just happen to be in the
same niche as my client Troy. But what
you will get is the ability to see what
highlevel [music] ideation extraction
looks like. Be able to use that same
process to generate an abundance of new
viral ideas for yourself. And after
seeing what you're about to see, you
have an entirely [music] different lens,
an entirely new lens to look through
whenever it comes down to coming up with
viral ideas that you will not be able
[music] to unsee. So without further
ado, let's hop in. So from the videos
that we're looking at here, we've had
two videos that have gone viral within
the past six, well, I would say three.
So we have this video here, email
coaches can ignore, get offers in 90
days, and then the make your highlights
look D1. That said, I do want to expand
on the highlights because number one,
that's the best performer. Number two,
I'm pretty sure that's probably one of
the more important things out of
everything that we mentioned. I would
imagine that's equivalent of an athletes
VSSL.
>> That is an athletes VSSL. It's the exact
same. Yes.
>> Perfect. So, whenever it comes down to
creating that VSSL, what ideas come to
mind? Such as, is there a particular way
that they should be editing it?
not necessarily
editing in the frame of like special
effects or anything like that, but order
is definitely very important. Um,
similar to how you have hook, um,
interest peak. I was actually planning
on making a video that was similar to
interest peak called interest stacking
where every five plays you add a
not a high value play, but an explosive
play that catches a coach's eyes so they
don't you don't lose them throughout the
the video. Um, but order, I guess to
answer your question, order is very
important.
Obviously, as I've said in all the other
videos, the first 30 seconds are the
most important. Kind of like the hook.
If they they don't [__] with the hook,
they're out.
Cool. How to make sure that works. All
right. So whenever it comes down to
highlights ordering and splitting up the
most explosive plays across the video to
be placed in the most optimal position,
what would you say is the mistake that
the viewer is making and what they
should do instead?
>> Could be different for a lot of players,
but generally their mistake is not
including their best plays up front. Uh,
another mistake they make is trying to
include too much [__] in the
beginning, such as a title screen, kind
of like an intro to YouTube video, very
similar to that, or like warm-ups,
trying to look cool, like they're making
a, you know, a video that's supposed to
go viral and not impress coaches.
Whereas, in the first 30 seconds, it
should be your absolute best place so
you hook the coach in and keep them
engaged for the rest of the video.
>> Okay, pause.
>> Yeah. Okay, this is going into multiple
different ideas. So, we have uh one
mistake is not including their best
plays up front. Best plays
up front.
We have um title screen.
And then we have warm-ups,
things
making you look cool but not effective.
Oh,
>> cool. So, I see this just narrowing down
a lot of what we talked about in that
previous viral video. So, looking at
this, I see multiple more ideas.
Best plays up front. You can kind of
come at it from the
Tarantina storytelling. Come at it from
that framework for
the title screens.
Um, you remember that? Were you there
for that uh narrow problem? I know you
weren't. Did you? Yeah, you might have
been at the first one. Were you there
for that first narrow problem board
whenever I walked through the difference
between broad and narrow problems?
>> I believe so. You were talking about
what's was it the one where you were
talking about what stage? No, that was
hooks.
>> Not 100% sure. Give me a give me a
example and I can definitely tell you.
>> Cool.
I just heard like us talking. [laughter]
>> Cool. So, this board does not look
familiar to you?
>> No.
>> Perfect.
>> Not particularly.
>> I want to watch this video with you.
This video got 14 million views.
>> Good god.
>> Things I don't want to see on your
resume in under a minute. An objective.
I know what your objective is. It's to
get a job. I'd rather see a summary.
Summarize your work experience.
>> What are your thoughts on that framing
for a highlight video specifically?
>> I think it's great. It puts you in the
position of like I'm evaluating it
instead of this is what you need to do
because someone else think it's [__]
If that if that is correct at all.
Okay. What are your thoughts on doing
this? Um,
do they have I'm pretty sure they do. Do
they have resumes for
uh
>> Yeah, they do. But that's such a waste
of time. So stupid. Um, it's it doesn't
really give you anything in terms of
value because coaches aren't recruiting
athletes simply based on their numbers
and statistics. Like one of the things I
told a family the other day is it's not
all about just how you are as an
athlete, it's about how you present it.
And a resume is is not presenting
character. A resume is not presenting
athletic abilities. It's not presenting
personality. Um, just because you have a
high GPA in high school doesn't mean
you're reliable. So, a resume doesn't
tell a whole story. Um, but a resume
overall, like in every other industry,
you'll be good, but a resume doesn't
tell the whole story and what coaches
are really looking for in an athlete. If
you send that, you're not going to get a
lot of conversations.
So, the monous question is going to be
instead of a resume, what should they
have?
>> They should have a few different things.
They should have a highlight video, a
elevator pitch, which is two to three
sentences max of who they are, why
they're reaching out. Um, include the
highlight video, and they always want to
have a question that is
either an opener to a conversation about
their fit with the program or shows
interest in the program. That would be
the real important things to have
immediately. From there, it goes into a
lot of different things like
transcripts, um, multiple videos to back
up, to send them, to build the
confidence for the coach. So, you know,
the more confident they are, the more
likely they are to offer you kind of
deal. There's a lot of other things you
can add on to that later in the process.
>> What
are transcripts?
>> You know, high school, you um, every
year you have your your transcripts that
show your grades. Oh, I never wanted to
see that, so I don't know what that is.
>> All right,
>> I get it. Yeah. No, neither do I. This
is cheating, though. You got me and you
going back and forth. [laughter] Sitting
here raw dog, probably.
>> All right, so best players up front.
Okay, so we operate off the Tino
storytelling. I've talked about that
before. So, you probably decent frame
for that for title screens. Why should
they not put title screens
at the beginning of their videos and
what should they put instead?
They they shouldn't put title screens at
the beginning of the video because
you're adding more time before the coach
can evaluate you. More time equals less
chances that a coach is actually going
to watch the video. Um, you want to hook
them in immediately and make sure they
actually want to keep watching instead
of showing them a picture of you with a
few stats or labels. What they should
have is their absolute best five plays
up front getting right into the action.
So, as soon as the coach clicks on the
video, they're excited from the very
beginning.
So main reason why you should have title
screens is because a coach doesn't care.
So if a coach doesn't care about a title
screen specifically, what should they
put instead that will immediately grab
the interest of the coach
>> instead of their best plays?
>> Instead of their best plays, there isn't
really anything that will grab the
coach's attention. Um there are specific
types of best plays. You could go into
the fact that you want to have plays
that don't necessarily show up on the
stat sheet. Like for basketball, for
example, taking charges, diving on the
floor. Um, the only thing that's going
to catch a coach's attention is going to
be your athletic ability. Nothing you
put on that title screen will change
that. Nothing you add before that. Just
your best plays. Other than that, all
the data shows anything else is going to
[__] you.
Outside of basketball, is this a a
common theme for most sports that there
are things that are done that don't
relay on the stat sheet that you should
include inside of your highlights?
>> Every team-based sport. Yeah. Golf
wouldn't be one. Uh tennis wouldn't
necessarily be one. I don't think most
sports. Yeah. Would you say out of your
client base, what percentage play a
team-based sport in comparison to
individual?
>> 90.
>> All right.
You should always put the things that
don't show up
in the stat sheet into your highlight
section because that's what coaches want
to see. Number one, why do coaches want
to see what is not included into the
stat sheet? And then what are three
different examples across three
different sports?
Okay. The reason coaches don't want to
see things that are The reason coaches
want to see things that are not on the
stat sheet is because that's what win
game wins games. Someone diving for a
loose ball in basketball to, you know,
get the ball with 30 seconds left. So
now your team is on offense and you're
up by two. You won that game because of
that play. Now the other team doesn't
have the opportunity to score again.
>> In football, laying a big block to let
your teammate get a touchdown. that
touchdown could be the deciding factor
between winning games. Every athlete
wants everything that's on the stat
sheets to show up because that's what
looks cool. But coaches need more than
just statute players. They need players
that are going to do the small things,
the the things that nobody else wants to
do to win games. Um for baseball, for
example, it could be laying out for a
catch. Even though, you know, maybe you
don't want to dive and hurt and burn
your knees or something like that,
laying out for putting your body on the
line to make a catch, that kind of
thing.
All right, we got six ideas in six
minutes. This one. Okay. Yeah, we talked
about that. Cool. Not bad.
>> So, this is all oriented majority on
highlights. However, there's only one
element of someone getting recruited.
Correct.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. Is there anything outside of their
playing ability that would affect them
not getting recruited that they could
avoid? Of course, grades, of course,
injuries.
without telling them to study more. Is
there any way to look at well actually
yeah what is those list of things that
they can improve on that is not the
actual sports that will help them get
recruit that will help them get
recruited am
>> I just listing this
>> confidence
communication
presentation
relationship building
um consistency
>> okay hold on
things that they
that you could be able to give.
Number one, I would assume that a coach
is only going to look into
a player if they think that they are
good enough. Let me reframe it. What do
you believe are the disqualifiers
>> and someone that might be good but a
coach isn't going to work with them
anyways?
>> So, this is before they ever speak to
them. before they ever speak to them
based off what the player would have
sent over.
>> It's hard to like like describe, but
showing that they're lazy in their film.
For example, I'll give you an example.
This might make more sense. We have a
football player we work with a wide
receiver and we consistently have to cut
out some of his videos because after the
play is like when the play's almost
done, he starts walking instead of going
through the whistle at full speed.
Right. So, he's giving the appearance
that he's lazy.
>> That's a great one. What else? anything
to do with attitude or
like for example University of
Connecticut their coach didn't recruit a
women's basketball player because she
didn't stand like she was being
disrespectful during the national anthem
and they're like no we don't do that and
didn't like um didn't shake hands with
the other team after the game not being
coachable so
not implementing what the coach is
saying or not making adjustments in the
game when things aren't going well
>> these do seem like so much clearer
examples. For example, I can go you can
go in and say, "Hey, don't have anything
that would be uh alcohol or anything
related to inside your Instagram and any
appearance of laziness." You can say,
"Check your film and if there's any
point that you're walking or anything of
a such, cut that for that one in
particular, there's no like clear
>> got that would so that would be more if
they were in person or watching full
game film." um completely disqualifies
you before you ever
>> grades.
>> Grades are obviously one. Yeah, I
thought we were excluding that one, but
academics is the first thing that will
disqualify you. If you can't get into a
school, they're not going to you can't
play football at a school you can't get
into,
>> right?
>> Um
>> is there any frame that we can come
through or that we that we can look
through to create a video around
academics that's not do better in your
in your classes?
>> We can talk about why academics are so
important. There's a few different
reasons. Not just about having good
grades. Number one, you're an easier
athlete to recruit because they don't
have to worry about you getting
admitted. You're a cheaper athlete
because you're going to get academic
scholarships. Also, that way they don't
have to give as much athletic
scholarship money. Um, you're a more
reliable athlete because you at least
show that you can show up and do your
job. You help build the team GPA, which
is going to help the coach in the long
run. Eligibility is never an issue.
You'll always be able to play. academics
will never come into play where you're
not eligible to play, which is weirdly a
decent problem.
I don't know if that would necessarily
pertain to everybody, but that's a big
problem in college sports is people not
keeping their grades up and not being
eligible to play. Um, it's probably it
other than obviously,
you know, if you don't get into the
school, you can't play the sport there.
>> I like this idea. Even just giving the
insights on why
having a higher GPA is going to be
better for the recruitment I would deem
as not only I would deem that as
beneficial then also on top of that you
talking about the student GPA I would
imagine would be more sexy to the parent
in comparison to the student to where
it's like you talking about GPA is going
to be a good look on your actual buyers.
I agree. Also, our our our
best clients always have higher GPA and
they're also easier to [__] work with
>> for these reasons.
>> Easier you're easier to recruit.
>> Why Why would it make someone easier to
recruit?
>> Because they don't have to worry about
getting to admission getting admitted
into the school. um
getting admitted to the school. They
don't have to
have to worry about your financial
ability to play for the school because
of the academic scholarships which comes
into the cheaper athlete. Um
coaches don't have to jump through hoops
and they don't have to double check like
your transcripts to make sure that
you're even going to be eligible. Most
of it comes back to getting admitted to
the school.
>> Cool. for reliable. I feel like this one
is like the most duh one. For this one,
it's like, huh, I never thought about it
from that frame of it's in the coach's
best interest to have the highest team
GPA. So, I'd imagine he has some sort of
incentive or stat himself that he's
graded upon whenever he goes to another
school and tries to get a better job,
whatever the case might be.
>> Rex,
>> I like that. I like that one because it
shows that the coach has to be operating
in his personal interest.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Which which is true.
Um, one of the comparisons I used to
make is if you have two athletes that
have the exact same skill level, the one
with a higher GPA is going to get the
offer because there's just more benefit.
>> All right. So, parents, what are
mistakes that parents make that ruin
their kids' chances at playing college
sports?
>> Trying to run the entire process. Um,
coaches see them as see their kid as not
like an adult taking control, but their
kid is, you know, the parents are doing
everything.
um
trying to let their 16-year-old make
major life decisions.
>> What does that mean?
>> Like for example, making a decision on,
you know, if if they want to use social
media for college recruiting if they
want to email coaches, like they need
parents jobs are to help the the kid,
not just [__] throw them in the water
and let them drown. every 16-year-old is
not going to be super motivated to email
college coaches and [__] like that. Um,
if that I don't think that that might
not be a good video idea, but
>> that doesn't speak to both. It only
speaks to one cuz I I would imagine the
16-year-old is like, I don't need my
[__] I got this.
>> Yeah, probably. That's all I was. Um,
[laughter]
>> limiting the athletes like
I don't want to say like not letting
them have social media. That's become a
problem that I've ran into where parents
are like, "You can't have a Twitter, you
can't have an Instagram." But that's
where a lot of college recruiting
happens. So, that's that's an issue.
>> Okay, hold on. The worst thing you can
do and then the end can be
cool.
I do want to make sure that we're
operating on the on the side of the
buyer and them liking us and us not
necessarily saying anything that's
directly
lowering that said likeness. Do you feel
as if if you said this and a parent were
to watch it,
they would like you less or do you think
that they would be open-minded enough to
go that makes sense? I think if framed
correctly and we say like you can
monitor it but then having it is
essential for college recruiting. If
framed correctly I think it would work
but I think if we just go you're [__]
idiots for not having your kids having
to social media I don't think that would
work very well.
>> Cool. Give me things that they do while
they're at the games as in one of the
things you mentioned is yell too loud.
>> Yelling at the refs, yelling at the
other team.
um trying to coach from the stands. So
you could frame that easily by saying it
yelling at the coach. Um
and one of the things that's an issue
that I actually had a kid I played high
school basketball with where he lost a
shot on the team because of this. His
mom came in and was yelling at the
coaches about playing time.
That's what the athlete should do. Um,
having adult conversations is what the
athlete should do. But I kind of would
go back into being a helicopter parent.
>> It seems like communication with the
coach also performs quite well.
>> There was one that did better than
those. It had like almost a million. Um,
there it is. It just popped up.
>> Oh, I'm liking this one. All right. What
are the most common questions that
coaches will ask? Here's
the play. The main thing, and it's the
same thing as all of the sales videos,
the best performing sales videos by far.
It's just going to be whenever someone
says this, you say this because in that
situation, it's clear that there is
opportunity. And no one wants to remove
themselves from getting that sort of
opportunity. So, who else is recruiting
you? How you answer this question
decides on if it's going to be them that
recruits you or no one. And it's just
like, [__] All right. Ah, [__] I don't
even know how to answer this.
>> Go to my uh go to my Instagram really
quick and look at the one that's got
914K views.
When coaches ask this question, your
response will determine if they ghost
you or they keep that conversation going
that could lead to an offer. How is your
recruiting process going so far? Is one
of the most common questions we get when
these athletes are reaching out to
college coaches. This is exactly what
you need to say word for word when
you're responding to that coach. Hey,
Coach Johnson, thanks for asking. The
recruiting process is moving very
quickly and I've talked to several
school.
>> Yeah. All right.
All right. This is
>> exact framework I followed there. I'm
pretty sure.
>> Yeah.
>> This right here is our [__] golden
ticket.
If we can just make all of these. The
thing is,
one thing that I feel as if no one ever
thinks about, especially whenever they
start working with higher level editors
and they're thinking about, okay, I want
my editing to be a certain quality and I
want to keep this quality up, is that
not only the duration of video, but
complexity of video. So, especially
whenever you have your internal editors
by yourself, not necessarily whenever
we're doing this [__] but especially
whenever you have your own editors and
you're thinking, I want to get the most
out of their time, which is what you're
paying for. These types of videos are so
valuable because they're quick, as in
the editor only has to edit for 30
seconds, but then also on top of that,
you can crank these out so easily.
Like this is just so easy to crank out
from the editing point of view to where
it's just like if we can just make two
of these a week, we are golden. Okay,
first off, 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14. I know you're not ecstatic about it
mainly because you've made a lot of
these it sounds like and it's not
something new to you. I don't care.
We're redoing all of these. I see 14
ideas we get to make. That said,
>> okay,
>> one of the things that you said about
camps,
>> how often is it that uh a player gets
invited to a camp? I would imagine
that's only a high level school.
>> No, dude. All camp invites. Yeah, camp
invites are not something that So, it's
it's against NCAA rules to invite
somebody to a camp based solely on their
athleticism or their skill. They have to
be open to the general public. And
generally, if you fill out anything,
you're getting a thousand of them.
Especially if you sign up for a
recruiting website that's not us, you'll
get a [__] ton of camping bikes. So,
everybody's flooded up with them all the
time.
>> So,
whenever I go to a camp, what are the
most important things that I do? So,
whenever I first arrive in the camp, the
first day that I'm there, what do I do?
>> The first thing you want to do is in
yourself, introduce yourself to the
coaching staff. Usually, they're one
day, by the way.
>> Cool. So, [__] that removes my one day
[__] All right. Um,
>> some of them are overnight, but most of
them are one day.
>> For relationship purposes, what are the
things that I need to do whenever I
arrive to the camp? Whenever I first
arrive.
>> Gotcha. The first thing you want to do
when you arrive at the camp is walk up
and introduce yourself to the coach face
to face in person. It doesn't matter if
you've already talked to them before. It
is a face with a name, shake their hand,
that kind of deal. Uh, from there, you
kind of go into whatever the camp flow
is that are going to give you some kind
of direction what to do next. But the
big thing is introducing yourself,
showing confidence, not being afraid to
walk in and talk to them.
Okay, we can't leave that one how it is.
What? So, what can I do within my first
impression that's going to make me stand
out in comparison to all the other
players at that set camp?
thing that's going to make you stand out
is actually walking up and talking to.
But asking asking a unique question will
always make you stand out because it's
someone they will remember. Uh instead
of asking, you know, what are you
looking for in a point guard, you say,
you know, what about your previous point
guard made you recruit them? What stood
out? What qualities they have? So,
always ask a unique question. Uh when
you go up and introduce them, introduce
yourself. So, that way you know what to
showcase and also they remember you
because you asked a unique question.
That makes sense.
[__] perfect.
All right. Whenever I'm playing, is
there like some sort of I don't I don't
Is it like the combine? Like what what
are they doing at the camp?
>> Similar. Usually at a camp they're going
to go through drills. They're going to
go through live play. Uh they'll
probably do some like depending on what
the sport is is different, but most of
the time it's going to be drills and
live play. Um that's going to be and
maybe some instruction like where you're
doing uh some things to get better
training you can put.
Would that not be similar to drills?
>> That would be. Yeah. So, never mind.
>> All right. So, we have drills and live
play. I like splitting that up into two.
So, you get there at the camp and they
have you start doing drills.
What are the most important things that
you need to display as you're running
through the drills that the coach is
having you do?
>> So, the first thing you want to focus on
is being fundamentally sound. Even if
you make a few mistakes here and there
in the actual drill, as long as your
fundamentals are there, that's what
coaches are looking for. The next thing
you want to do is take as many reps as
possible. A lot of athletes will hide in
the back and just take a rep here and
there. try to be in the front and get as
many reps as possible in front of the
coaches. And then the last thing that's
arguably the most important is to be the
loudest person person during those reps.
Whether it's talking to the other
players, encouraging them, or getting
feedback from the coaches, the person
who's the loudest is the person they
notice the most.
Okay, so I got out of the drills and I'm
now doing some live play.
During that live play,
what would be universal advice that you
can give to someone on what to avoid and
what to do whenever they're doing live
play in whatever sport they're playing
in?
>> Always stick to your strengths is the
number one thing. People who try to go
outside what they're good at, those are
the people who don't get recruited
because coaches brought you there for a
reason. They saw you were good at
something. So, that's number one. Uh,
number two, you want to actually try to
play as a team. You don't want to just
try to be an individual out there even
though you don't know these people.
Playing as a team is super important and
teamwork is something coaches look for.
And number three is to not be scared to
do what you're good at. A lot of
athletes are timid, don't want to make
mistakes. But it's it's going it's going
to be more hurtful to your game not
making mistakes and not doing what you
can than it would be to make mistakes
doing what you know you're good at. If
that makes sense at all. It's kind of
gibberish.
>> Does make sense.
some of the things that you mentioned
previously around
communicating with your
teammates and all that other good jazz.
Is there anything outside of your
playing ability
and your athleticism that would stand
out to a coach doing live play?
>> Your ability to manage other people. Um
making sure people in the right places,
making sure that uh you're in the right
place. Well, that's not really your play
as much as just your knowledge. So, how
you how your brain works really would be
very important. Um, that was one of the
reasons I got recruited. I was not good
enough to play when I did. I just always
made sure my entire team was in the
correct place.
If that's an answer you're looking for.
>> It does. So, it feels like we only have
two things. We have basically stick to
your strengths,
manage other people well. If you see
anyone making a mistake or if you can be
show that you're a leader in any
capacity, take the opportunity.
Is there anything else outside of those
two that you feel as if uh players
should display during live play?
>> Uh your your emotional um intelligence,
not being too high, not being too low no
matter what happens, staying even kill
the entire time. A lot of kids will just
they'll either completely shut down if
they do something bad or they'll be way
too up when they do something good. But
that's not how college athletes look.
>> Cool. So
having a baseline a little bit above uh
neutral.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
So morale
>> perfect one
>> right now with the list of things that
we have. How do we feel?
>> A lot better. Um, I would pay for just
this to be honest, but both a good mix
of everything I've already done and also
adding in some other factors. I like all
of it, I guess, is a short answer
without trying to just go on a tangent.
>> One thing you mentioned is that you've
already done. Let's try to get some
things that would be fresh.
>> The entire parents one is fresh.
>> The entire cool.
>> Yeah. Um, maybe I might have done a
mistakes parents make that was like
years ago and it was so [__] man. I
don't know. Um, it's hard to come up
with something fresh in a lot of cases
because it all comes down to the same
things. Are you reaching out to college
coaches? Do your highlights look like
they're worth watching?
And how are you communicating with these
coaches? Like, are you building a
relationship?
>> You ever thought about breaking down a
highlight? So,
>> viewing one.
>> Yeah. Like 30,000 foot view. You're
viewing a highlight. you know for a fact
this really popular high school student
just got 84 offers or whatever the case
might be and you break down their
highlight reel and why it was so
effective.
>> I have thought about doing that. My only
thought is how can I do that and keep it
within you know under [__] five
minutes? Do I just break down a piece of
it like a section? I mean, my preference
would just be you make a YouTube video
doing it and then in the short you
basically just break down the intro and
then say is if you nail the first 30
seconds, you're 80%. You're 80% there.
The last 20% is going to be the four
minutes that video
>> exactly. Uh and then if you want to see
that, just comment blink and I'll send
you my YouTube video.
>> Realistically, that's an endless loop of
videos, isn't it? That is an endless
loop of videos.
>> Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I thought about
doing that. I just didn't know how to
make it work. But I guess that makes a
lot more sense. Just make a YouTube
video and then cut a piece out. Cut the
intro of the YouTube video out. And
that's my that's my um
that's my reel. Am I short? Is there
anything else I could break down that
would make sense? Because I thought
about doing that with like emails, but I
don't know how I could possibly do that
unless somebody just sent them over to
me. You could break down a profile uh an
athletes profile.
>> Just pick a random athlete.
>> I mean, if you don't pick a random
athlete, like basically say, um, on your
stories, I'm breaking down blah blah
blah blah blah. Comment blank if you
want me to break down yours. And then
anyone that replies, you just look at
the 100 people that reply, choose the
one that you feel if you could give the
best advice on or that would be the most
potent or clear advice. Right. Okay.
Yeah, I can do that.
>> Speaking of profiles, have you done a
video breaking down uh what the
optimized Instagram profile is?
>> We've done optimized Twitter profile. We
haven't done Instagram.
>> How the optimized um Twitter
profile perform?
>> I want to say it like [__] on screen.
>> Cool.
>> Wasn't very well edited.
>> That's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking
with different framing. I think that
could perform extremely well. Well, I
sent Oh, I deleted when the [__]
YouTube went down or the Instagram kept
going down. I purged some of my videos,
but I think it did like 10K or something
like maybe 20. Um, but it it literally I
sent him your video of the optimized
profile for like
>> inspiration and it pretty much was just
your video of an optimized profile, but
shitty. So,
>> it didn't do very well.
Is there any kind of what kind of tools
can uh an athlete utilize? So, for
example, are there any sorts of websites
or anything like that?
>> Uh, one of the ones we used to use when
we were doing this like a a
do-it-yourself service where the
athletes could email a bunch of coaches
at once was Google Streak, which is
essentially an email software that's
native to Gmail.
>> What does this do and why should an
athlete utilize it? And um how much does
it cost?
>> It's perfectly It's 100% free. Uh it's
100% free for the base, which allows you
to send 50 emails per day all instantly
and they're all personalized to the
coach in the school. Um it allows you to
see if a coach opens your email and
when. And it also notifies you when you
need to follow up with coaches. Uh the
paid version goes a lot more in depth
with like tracking and and pipelines and
stuff, but overall just the free version
is is awesome just for getting your name
out there.
This is a fantastic tool. What are the
tools out there? That would be websites
or really anything of the sort that
would be doesn't even have to be
digital. I don't know what I don't know
what a physical would be, but
>> I don't either. Um, probably Cap Cut,
like explaining how to edit their videos
with Cap Drive, because a lot of videos
I see are just shitty put together where
you can see the screen recording thing
as they're going through it, like as the
sh the
play is shifting to the next play, you
see the screen recording little piece go
up on their phone.
>> You don't want any watermarks on the
highlight. What else?
>> Don't want any watermarks on the
highlights. Um, you don't want it to be
extremely zoomed in and blurry. A lot of
times athletes will try to zoom their
video in and it'll just make the whole
thing blurry. Um, you don't want any you
don't want any transitions and special
effects. Coaches aren't looking to
evaluate how good you are as an editor.
They're evaluating your game. And
usually when people add lightning and
[__] coming down from the screen, it
just ends up making it harder to
evaluate you. They also don't want to
hear a bunch of crazy ass music in the
background. Instrumentals are usually
the best. So you're not having a bunch
of like people talking about drugs and
smoking crack in your highlights.
>> I like this direction.
>> One that might be better actually is
when you circle yourself to show the
coach like where you're going to be
making that way too long, like five to
six seconds.
>> So don't zoom in. You want to circle
where you're going to be. Circle where
you are. What other things can you do in
the editing that would help the coach
evaluate you as a player?
>> We're talking about actual editing. Um,
let the play like let the play develop
in the video. Don't don't make the clip
too short to where they can't actually
this is a two-part piece. You don't make
the clip too short and you don't make
the clip too long. Um, there's a fine
line in between where, you know, you're
boring them to death with a 30 second
lead up and then there's also 5 seconds
where they just see the result. Are
there any instrumentals that you find
just [__] fit highlights really well?
>> Not particularly. Now, most of the time
we have we use um
Epidemic Sounds for all the video uh
all the instrumentals, but it costs like
92 bucks a year. Um
so you can just give what you use
versus free well and free and a free
alternative
>> alternative. And then you can just
explain
here's where to find good ones.
Plus,
you can mention
why they are good in comparison to
um key lock.
[laughter]
Um okay, so we have cap cut. Whenever it
comes down to the effects that you need,
what effects do you need?
to edit a video. I would imagine there's
a specific effect that you need for the
circle. That would be one.
>> Yeah, you would need a circle or an
arrow works. Anything to indicate where
you are is fine.
>> Okay. Circle.
Circle slash indication.
Are you ever going to indicate where
you're going to go?
>> Typically, no. No. No. You just show the
initial spot. Once you start adding too
many effects, it starts to make it
harder for them to actually see what's
going on in the play. Um,
in some cases, you can have
the result of the play labeled on the
video somewhere on the clip somewhere.
If it's something like uh like golf
where you need to say like what kind of
club you're using, whether it's like a
non or what? Um, sometimes that will
make sense. Outside of the circle
indication, probably not many. Is there
anything else that you feel as if must
be taunt in cap cut? That is a
technicality.
>> Probably how to add your
I'm going off the assumption nobody
knows how to use it. So probably how to
add your instrumental to your clips.
Trim it and make sure everything lines
up and doesn't look all [__] up,
right? Um but I don't know if that would
be good for a video.
I would imagine what you could do is you
could just take either one of these two
and then push them towards a longer form
YouTube video that they can watch and
then you can include that information
inside the long form.
>> Perfect. Okay.
>> And that could literally just be you
firing up the camera, screen sharing,
and you just editing a video for a
client and then just walking through
what you're doing and just having a
bullet point on what you want to expand
on. But I would imagine that'll take you
20 minutes to record Max.
>> Yes. To that. Yeah,
>> beautiful. I think we came up with a
couple more unique ideas for parents.
I'm trying to think of something else
for the parents. So, that one's just
difficult.
>> I was thinking like maybe how they can
help their kid.
>> How How can they help their kid?
>> They can review everything they're doing
before they send it. All the emails, all
the DMs, check for [__] grammar
mistakes are incredibly It's egregious
how bad these kids are at grammar. Would
you say that could be under tools of
just like getting something to check
grammar?
>> 100%. Yeah, like grammarly. I don't
know.
>> Hell, I'll even say I can throw it in
chat GPT and just put in the right
prompt where it doesn't make it look
like it was written by Chad GPT. Is
there any case to where
a uh outside of spell check is there any
case to where chat Gvt can help
a player?
>> Probably breaking down the skills you
need to showcase to coaches like by
position because one of the things I
teach is
um you want to have your videos
sectioned out. You want to have
obviously your full highlight videos.
You want to have your single game
highlights, but you also want to have
individual uh videos showcasing specific
skills and it could help you plan a list
of those skills that you need to
showcase to make videos of.
>> And what tool is this?
>> As you can see, you could just ask it
like as a wide receiver, what skills may
coach want to see.
>> Okay.
Parents, what can they do to help the
kid?
>> Oh, [__] Yeah. Yeah. Um,
>> no, no, no. We were talking about that
previously. I was like, [__] that.
That's how back to parents. Um, so
definitely
help prepare them for calls with coaches
um to have an adult conversation. That
will probably be beneficial. Um,
help them keep everything organized. I
don't know exactly how to go about that,
but
as a 16-year-old,
you're not the most organized
individual.
Ah, like a practice pitch like role
play.
>> Yeah.
smart.
>> That way you have to rewatch it. Might
be sent to the parents. I like this one
a lot.
This one might be a little bit on the
left field.
N too far left field. We'd have to have
some videography for that.
>> Throw it out, dude. What do you got?
>> Handshake. How do you how do you do a
good handshake?
>> You know what's funny? I was thinking
about that one, but
you're right. It would have to I would
have to have like multiple
>> balls set up, but
>> probably important. I'm sure a lot of
these kids go all limp fish hand on it,
you know.
>> Yeah.
>> If we had all these ideas, would that
one be the most difficult to create?
Probably. So,
>> yeah. I think with this I can make a
[__] ton of videos pretty easily.
>> Dude, if you want to record what I'm
about to say, this is going to be a
glowing testimonial.
>> Go for it.
>> Last month was our highest month. We
made 83,000. The goal is 100. Obviously,
by, you know, the end of January, I want
to make 100. But every single person
that signed up to work with us before
they
they did one of two things. when they
purchased, they either said like, "We're
doing this because we watch all of
Troy's videos." Or before they
purchased, they on camera scrolled
through my videos on Instagram. And then
made the decision to go forward with us.
So, the content part, unbelievable,
dude. That is the sole reason we made 83
grand last. That is it. Hopefully, you
enjoyed this live extraction and you got
some value out of it. That said, if you
are a business owner that makes over 20K
per month and you've either made the
decision that you [music] want to scale
your business by starting a personal
brand in 20126 or you're already making
content but just not getting the results
that you want, then feel free to click
on the first link in the description to
learn more about what it looks like to
work with Hey.